Our first sermon for today is entitled The Benefits of Traditional Lenten Practices.
When I was a child,
I spoke as a child, I felt as a child, I thought as a child.
Now I have become a man and put away the things of a child.
We're taken from our epistle today.
In the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Ghost, amen.
Today we will consider the benefits of traditional Lenten penance or simply put,
how to put away the things of a child.
For hundreds and hundreds of years, when most had to do hard manual labor to provide for themselves, Christians observed a strict lent and fast of 40 days.
They ate and drank, including water just once a day, abstaining entirely from meat, eggs, and milk products.
Eventually, some places began to add a second snack to maintain one's strength.
And in other places, dairy was permitted.
But for around 1400 years, every Christian maintained a strict fast with abstinence from meat on each of the 40 days.
But as people grew weaker and less devout,
More and more exemptions were given.
These exemptions accelerated very much so in the last century, bringing us to our current childish state when there are only two days of mandatory fasting in the entire year and only eight days of mandatory abstinence.
Why then?
Did our ancestors afflict themselves so deeply during Lent for so many centuries?
These three principal reasons.
Atonement for sins, detachment from created goods, and greater union with Christ in his passion.
Consider for a moment the sins of your past life
or even the sins of the past year.
And while some of the temporal punishment to them is forgiven by confession, how much more remains?
And we think, oh, well, that's what purgatory is for.
Many of the saints and blessed who have seen the pains of purgatory at first believe they were looking into hell itself.
One of the poor souls even testified
that all the fires of earth compared to that of purgatory are like a refreshing breeze.
And the imitation of Christ warns us, one hour of suffering there will be more bitter than a hundred years of the most severe penance here.
Now we who are living have a great advantage
According to St. Catherine of Genoa, the very small amount of penance done in this life cancels out great and extended tortures and purgatory.
So one short day of fasting in this life freed you from a year's worth of pain in the next.
How glad you would be to pay it here and not there.
St. John Climacus once visited some monks
who, because they had fallen into just one mortal sin, chose to spend the rest of their lives in a prison where they would bind themselves in chains, beat themselves, stand awake, and in the cold all night, expose themselves to the sun all day, live on a crust of bread and only enough water to keep them from dying of thirst.
He writes, from the number of their prostrations, their knees seemed to have become wooden, their eyes dim and sunk deep within their sockets.
They had no hair.
Their cheeks were bruised and burnt by the scalding of hot tears.
Their faces were pale and wasted.
They were quite indistinguishable from corpses.
Their breasts were livid from blows.
And from their frequent beating of the chest, they spat blood.
All of this helps explain the conduct of those 14 centuries of Christians who afflicted themselves so deeply during Lent.
Every year atoning for their sins with 40 days of hard penance.
Have we so fewer sins than they?
Do we no longer need to make such satisfaction?
Now these Lenten penances produce a second effect, greater detachment from created goods.
There are many enjoyments in life which are good in themselves, but threatened to get out of hand if they are not checked by a yearly pruning.
Thus, in those good centuries past,
Public entertainments were forbidden in Lent.
Consider the luxuries available to most Christians in those centuries, their forms of entertainment in comparison with our own.
And if we live in much more luxurious times with entertainments far more addictive than anything they had in the past, should we be doing less
pruning, less penance, or more.
The more aggressive the vine is, the more frequently it must be cut back.
St. John of the Cross says that the soul is not only hindered by the thick cord of mortal sin, the thin string of attachment to created goods.
is sufficient to prevent it from rising up to God.
Which brings us to the third and greatest purpose for doing Lenten penance, union with Christ in his passion.
How often does our Lord tell us that if we would reign with him, if we would be united with him, we must share in his bitter chalice, we must carry our cross and mourn with him.
And if he kept a strict fast of 40 days, so thought 14 centuries of Christians, so should we.
Indeed, this reason for Lent contains all the others in it.
Our Lord bore upon himself the heavy cross in atonement for our sins.
Thus when we attend for our sins through penance, we are all the more united to Christ like Simon carrying the same cross together.
And every penance that unites us more to Christ by its very nature detaches us more from the goods of this world.
It was desire of greater union with Christ, more than sorrow over his sins.
that drove St. Peter of Alcantara to undertake his many penances.
He designed for himself a cell four and a half feet in length so that he could never lie down.
He ate just once every three days, wore only a sat cloth habit and his cloak and never covered his head or his feet, not even in the bitter cold.
And he lived like this year round, not just during Lent.
All to be more perfectly conformed to Christ.
This makes penances like sleeping on the floor, wearing a rope or a hair shirt seem pretty mild.
But Saint Peter is one of a whole multitude of saints who has such a love of God
and already experienced such union with Christ in this life, yet undertook these penances to deepen their love and their unity.
And so again, we must ask ourselves, do we have such great love, such unity with Christ that we no longer need penance to deepen it?
Or have we drifted in our devotion
and need such penances to rekindle our love.
Do these three principal benefits of Lenten penance we might add a fourth?
If we undertake penance like fasting, enduring the cold, sleeping on the ground, denying ourselves entertainment, we end up preparing ourselves for persecution, prison, and even martyrdom.
as Fr.
Nolan reminded us last advent.
St. John the Baptist would not have anyway been swayed by being imprisoned by King Herod.
It was no worse than the life that he was used to.
We can also look to the 40 holy martyrs.
Around the year 320, there were 40 soldiers, all Christian, who refused to offer sacrifice to idols.
After being scourged, they were condemned to lie naked on a frozen pond.
His penance, they embraced joyfully, stripping themselves and walking out onto the ice.
Forty, they cried, we have come to do combat.
Grant that Forty may be crowned.
To tempt them, a warm bath was prepared nearby for anyone who would apostatize.
as one of the pagan soldiers looked on in admiration of their faith and courage.
He saw angels descending from heaven, bearing 39 crowns, and wondered why there were not a full 40.
At that moment, one of the would-be martyrs gave up and left the ice for the bath.
He gave up his faith
And the moment he touched the water, he gave up his life and his soul along with it, dying on the spot and apostate.
This made it this, wanting to see the number 40 completed.
The admiring soldier proclaimed himself a Christian and went to join the other martyrs on the ice.
So if we lack motivation to do penance this Lent, or to maintain our penances the whole way through and complete the 40 days, let us remember these 40 holy martyrs and remind ourselves that persecution, prison and martyrdom may indeed be offered us as well.
And if we cannot do small things like taking 40 cold showers
sleeping on the ground 40 times.
How shall we think to endure what the enemy may have in store to tempt us with?
We see every day how someone suffers the cancel culture by being kicked off Twitter or fired from their Hollywood job.
But will we be ready for real persecution if it comes our way?
For 14 centuries, ordinary Catholics knew all this and kept a hard fast with other strict penance all the 40 days.
They pruned off those yearly excesses atone for their sins in this life, all the while deepening their love for Christ.
And so let us close with Pope Benedict XIV.
who wrote this in 1741.
The observance of Lent is the very badge of Christian warfare.
By it we prove ourselves not to be enemies of the cross of Christ.
By it we avert the scourges of divine justice.
By it we gain strength against the princes of darkness
for it shields us with heavenly help.
Should mankind grow remiss in their observance of Lent, it would be a detriment to God's glory, a disgrace to the Catholic religion, and a danger to Christian souls.
Neither can it be doubted that such negligence would become the source of misery to the world
of public calamity and of private woe.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
We hope you enjoyed this sermon entitled, The Benefits of Traditional Lenten Practices.
Our next sermon for today is entitled No Sin Is Forgiven Through Indifference.
Did you ever feel remorse?
A sense of emptiness?
A disgust with excesses?
Or a wish for inner peace?
That was the voice of God.
And those of you who may have given up the church for sensationalism, may feel during this week an urge to return and to go to confession.
That is an actual grace.
That is the voice of God.
And those of you who have received this little book which we are giving away free, book called Friends, for you who have read it,
and felt impaled to be more kind to your neighbor and to your enemy, though you note that it was not the book that so inspired you.
It was the voice of God.
It was an actual grace.
Make this experiment.
I care not whether you believe in God or not for the moment.
But at your first opportunity, stop in a Catholic church for a visit.
Now, if you are not Catholics, and therefore you do not believe as we do that our Lord is really and truly present in the Blessed Sacrament, just go there and sit down for an hour.
The more we respond with gentle pressure, the greater will be our freedom.
Too long have each and every one of us said, I want to be just myself.
Oh, can't we think of anything better than that?
How about beginning to be, with the help of God's actual graces, a veritable child of God?
There is hope for the disease to acknowledge the need of a physician.
And there is hope for a sinner who recognizes the need of a redeemer.
The thief at the right conquered evil just that way.
By admitting his emptiness of soul, he called upon God to save him.
Is only one thing in the world that is worse than sin.
That is,
denying that we are sinners.
That is the tragedy of the world in which we live.
It denies sin.
Never before in the history of the world was there so much evil.
Never before sold little consciousness of it.
We blame everyone except ourselves.
Talk to a modern man about recognizing and reconciling his soul with God and this is what he will say to you.
What have I ever done to him?
I leave him alone.
Why shouldn't he let me alone?
Why does the modern man say this?
Well, for the very same reason that a healthy man might say to a surgeon who wished to operate on him, there's nothing wrong with me.
Leave me alone.
In like manner, if you are your own law, if you set your own standards,
If you are your own God, then it is nonsense to ask to be reconciled to another God.
As a man gets more wicked he understands his wickedness less and less.
Just as when a man's fever climbs to a point of deliriousness, he understands his sickness less and less.
He may even think himself so healthy that he wants to go to work.
The more we are in sin, the less we know sin.
As the sounder we are asleep, the less we know we are asleep.
We have to wake up before we know we were asleep.
The cross is the eternal proof that no sin is forgiven through indiverance.
God safeguards his justice even at the very moment that he forgives.
All ye like sheep have gone astray.
Everyone has turned his own way.
And he who knew no sin, he hath made sin for us that we might be made the justice of God in him.
And I wonder in the light of that word from the cross,
If the modern hatred of religion is not to a great extent determined by the way men live.
God love you.
We hope you enjoyed this sermon entitled No Sin Is Forgiven Through Indifference.
Our next sermon for today is entitled Our Obligation to Read the Bible.
And I could relate to it.
Yesterday I was receiving messages from a person abroad, and this person was telling me that priests are men of leisure.
And I went into a little bit of a rant with him.
But it's actually interesting to see all the things that he went through.
And oftentimes, because we have heard it so many times, it's easy for us to brush it off to pass it by the side.
And I want you to consider this so that you see the importance of what the apostle tells us.
Try to think of one man in history, just one that you can compare to the apostles in Paul.
One man that went through all those things without an army next to him, without people pushing him or giving him orders, without money, without any incentive other than his own conviction.
Think of one man that alone
endured all these things and more because this is just what he's telling us in history.
And if you think about it, honestly, let me know if you come up with someone.
I cannot think of one man in the whole of the history of the earth that compares to him other than those who imitated him, the missionaries, those who carry the word of Christ.
And this tells you something interesting that these things that he speaks of, they are a great deal.
He is truly an exceptional man, one that there is none like him in history.
But why did St. Paul do all these things?
Why did he go through all these efforts?
Why the shipwrecks, why the dangers, all those things?
It was because he understood very well the importance of the word of God, of transmitting, of preaching the word of God.
Now my dear friends, today I would like to speak to you precisely of this, of the word of God,
We know that the word of God is contained in two sources.
One is tradition, and the other one is holy scriptures.
As traditional Catholics, we often hear of tradition because it is the one that is most under attack.
But we often neglect to speak of the written word of God of the Bible.
And it is important if we want to have a complete teaching to also speak of the importance of
the written word of God.
Regarding the Bible, my dear friends, there are many misconceptions.
People think, for example, that Catholics are not supposed to read the Bible, that it is a sin to read the Bible.
You'll hear many Protestants tell us that the church discouraged the reading of the Bible, and that is not so.
None of that is true.
As a matter of fact, the church wants us to read the Bible.
It encourages us to do so.
But there are some laws, some regulations regarding this in order to avoid danger, and I would like to cover those very quickly.
The Church wants you to read the Bible, but from the right sources.
As a Catholic, you can only read a Bible that is translated by a Catholic, that is a Catholic translation, and that has Catholic commentary.
If a Bible is a Protestant Bible or from other sources,
Or even if it's a Catholic translation, but it doesn't have commentary, then it is forbidden for us not only to read it, but even to have it.
So if there are some among us that might have the King James Bible or some other edition of the Bible, we should get rid of that.
We should not have that.
We should not read it.
One should also mention that, especially nowadays,
We should only read the Bibles edited before Vatican II.
You know that the Bibles after Vatican II, there was an order in Vatican II, one of the documents actually an instruction, encouraging Catholics to edit Bibles with Protestants in union with the Protestants.
And for that reason, many of the Bibles that come after Vatican II have those intermingled efforts between Protestants and Catholics.
So we should only read the Catholic Bibles.
The penalty for breaking this law to have Bibles that are not Catholic or to read them can be very severe and it can amount even to excommunication.
That's why we should be very careful with that.
Now, something important to note is this.
Why is the church so severe?
Why these laws?
Is it because the church is closed-minded?
Is it because the church is afraid of something for herself?
No.
The reason for that is that the church wants to protect us.
If men had not mingled in the Bible, if men had not mixed lies and wrong translations and done what Luther and Calvin did, removing books, putting their own words in there in order to bring forth their lies, if men had not put poison there where God intended for us to have life,
the church which wouldn't have to have any regulations.
But because men have done these things, the church needs to put these regulations to protect us.
Okay, once we've talked about this, now that we are protected, now that we're safe, that we know where to go, how should we read the Bible and how important is it for us to read it?
I would say this, it is important for Catholics
to read the Bible on a daily basis.
You should read the Bible so often that if someone asks you for a certain passage, for a certain story, for something about it, you can go and find that passage in your Bible, in your personal Bible.
I don't care for the pedantry, let's call it that for now, the pedantry of Protestants, of memorizing every chapter and every verse.
Very good if you do so, commendable, but that is more erudition.
What Catholics, what we should know for sure is the content that is in the Bible, what is in each book, in each chapter, in each part in there.
It is necessary, as I said, I say it again, for every chapter, for every Catholic to read at least one chapter of the Bible daily.
If your children are past 15 years old, they should be reading one chapter of the Bible daily also, of the New Testament at least.
And when your children are 18 years old or older,
Then they should read also the Old Testament.
They will be old enough to understand it.
There are only a few books that you should explain to them beforehand, having yourself being instructed.
One of them, the most difficult one to understand, perhaps, would be the Canticle of Canticles.
The other point we mentioned is, how should the Bible be read?
Here there is a very important point.
The Bible, we should see it
much like we see the blessed sacrament.
In other words, when you read holy scripture, you should be very aware that in there there is the presence of God in a certain way.
You are reading the words of God.
And so you should read it with attention, with focus, praying before and after you read it.
It would be very wrong for a person to, for example, grab the Bible and go and lay down in the bed and take a cheesecake next to it and be listening to music at the same time.
as if it was any other book.
You read the Bible with great respect, with utter respect.
To give you a notion of this, back in the days in medieval times, the Bible would be kept actually in the tabernacle, right next to the Blessed Sacrament.
This gives us an idea of how much respect we should have when we listen, when we read it.
There's also an indulgence that there is when you still study the Holy Scripture, so make sure that
In your Bible, usually you will have a prayer and a note of those indulgences, and you could read those before you read the Bible.
But most importantly, to read Holy Scripture with fruit, you have to have three dispositions.
One is you have to have humility to be able to read it, thinking that you're being instructed by the Church, by God, through His Holy Scripture.
You should have a clean heart,
not be reading the Bible to seek for a justification for your own actions, but rather to be very willing to follow what God tells you.
And that is the third point.
You have to read the Bible with intention to practice what is taught, to put in practice what our Lord tells you.
That's why when you're here and you hear the gospel, you stand, we all stand, and we face towards the missile.
That is to signify that we're willing to practice what is being preached.
I want to give you a story that illustrates how we're supposed to listen and to read the Holy Scripture.
There was, in the times of World War II, a rabbi in Rome.
He was the chief rabbi of Rome.
His name was Israel, Israel Soli.
He actually was one of those who at the time asked Pius XII for his help.
When the Nazis came, Israel Soli warned all his people.
He told them,
We need to get out of here.
We need to disband all our institutions, stop having public services, because the Nazis are going to come after us.
They didn't listen.
And many of the Jews were actually put in prison.
Israel solely went actually to Pius XII to ask for help.
And that was one of the reasons why Pius XII hid many Jewish people in the walls in the Vatican, in many convents and churches.
Around this time,
He was having a service in his synagogue.
He was having the service of Yom Kippur.
And as he was having his service, he actually had a vision of our Lord Jesus Christ.
And he heard a voice telling him, this is the last time you will do this.
After he had this vision, he started reading the gospel little by little.
And we read from his own words how he used to read the gospel.
He would go out
out of his house into the fields, in the silence where no one was around.
And in there, quietly, he would read the gospels.
Not just the gospels, he would take a commentary by Father Lagrange.
And reading that commentary, he would try to understand it.
And he says, these are his words.
He says, during the summer in the loneliness of the fields, I would read the gospel to taste the sweetness of it and to instruct myself more and more.
Thus, the holy texts became more and more dear to me.
And every day I would love it more.
Rabbi Israel Soly ended up converting to the faith.
And he took the name Eugenio Soly in honor of Pius XII.
He became so fervent that he ended up teaching in the Pontifical Institute.
And he wrote several books to try to convert the Jewish people to the faith.
This is, my dear friends, how we are to read the Holy Scriptures and the fruit of them when we read them well.
Read the Bible, my dear friends.
It's yours.
As a Catholic, it belongs to you.
It is your treasure, your inheritance.
To you, the Holy Scripture is open.
Those words are open for you to understand them.
And you have a teacher to teach it to you, the Holy Catholic Church.
To others, the Protestants and other denominations, the book is closed.
The words are sealed.
They are hidden, as our Lord said.
They hear, but they do not understand.
They see, but they cannot see truly well.
But you as a Catholic, this treasure is open to you.
So read the Bible.
If you want to be happy in the Bible, you will find true blessedness, as our Lord tells us.
Blessed are those who hear the word of God and keep it.
If you want to make the right decisions in life, be prudent, our Lord says.
He who hears my words and puts them in practice will be like the prudent man
who edified his house upon the rock.
If you want to have a strength against temptations, the fortitude to be a better man or a better woman, food, spiritual food for your soul, the Bible, the Holy Scripture is food for your soul, as our Lord says, not only of bread does man live, but of every word of God.
Do you want your prayers to be heard swiftly?
Our Lord to answer them quickly.
Hear what our Lord Jesus Christ tells us.
If my word remains in you, ask what you will and it shall be giving you.
Do you want to know if you love God, if you're in the right path, if you're in the way to heaven, listen to the words of the eternal truth?
If anyone should love me, he will keep my word and my Father will love him and we will come to him and make our dwelling in him.
He who does not love me does not keep my word.
Do you want to live without fear?
God has said to us, he who hears me shall live in peace, safe and without fear of evil.
And finally, my dear friends, do you want to live forever?
Do you want to have eternal life?
Hear the words of God that says, amen, amen, I say to you, he who hears my word and believes in him who sent me has eternal life and shall not be judged for he has passed from death to life.
Let us end, my dear friends, faithfully, piously, humbly, read the Holy Scripture.
It is the letter of your Father from heaven.
It is the blueprint that you have to build your house up there.
It is the map to get up there, the instructions that you have to become a better man.
Let it be that in us it happens as St. Paul says in the Holy Scripture that the word of God dwells in us abundantly.
And remember,
In holy scripture, you have the perfect picture of God.
It's a constant picture of God placed upon your eyes, where you can see all his features, his mercy and his justice, his punishments and his rewards.
As Saint Jerome said, he who ignores the scriptures ignores Jesus Christ.
In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, amen.
We hope you enjoyed this sermon entitled Our Obligation to Read the Bible.
Our final sermon for today is entitled Finish What You Started.
Finish!
As in finish what you started.
It's the 1970s, 1980s.
Her name is Joanna.
Joanna is a California girl.
She is one of three and she has great parents and they're living in California and then they decided, well, it was time to move.
So they moved from there to Greece.
Man, she is on her heels.
They go to Greece, they decide, man, they've got to get back.
They go to Greece, they move back to Philadelphia.
From Philadelphia, they move back to New York.
As a result, it's important because of the work that her parents do.
See, Joanna's parents
Well, they're actors.
And Joanna's parents do actually pretty well.
Her mom actually was part of the Beverly Hill Billings.
No, she's not granny.
Just move on.
As a result of it, man, she was involved in a little bit of that.
She did a little bit of the wild, wild west.
And then her dad was part of Days of Our Lives.
And so as a result of such, man, that's their world.
So when she got back, you could tell that me and school just didn't have the interest that she thought it would.
So she went to what they call the New York, or maybe it might be the Guardia School of Dance and Art.
She go there and she starts performing, but you gotta remember now, she is starving to death.
There is just no money in it.
I mean, she becomes a telemarketer.
She becomes a bike messenger, Joanna does.
She was even running errands for people.
She did things for like, neutral systems.
I mean, whatever it took to make it another 30 days.
And as a result of it,
Man, she is begging and pleading for just any ink opening.
And she gets one.
And she gets an opening in Ferris Bueller's Day Off.
Swinging a miss.
OK, I got that.
As a result of it, she does that.
And then, man, it makes a little money, right?
So we can move.
And then she gets into a movie called Leprechaun.
Don't even bother.
OK?
As a result of it, man, now the wheels have officially come off.
We're back to do until the marketing.
We're dealt to run in errands.
We're just, we're just not getting there.
And as a result, she is about to throw in the towel and your parents tell her, Oh, no, you don't.
You started this race.
You're going to finish it.
So either you run it all the way out to you just can't do it.
And it is officially over or you stay in this game until you either prove it one way or another, but no more half ways.
As a result, she's sitting in a car.
She's across street at a grocery store.
She's about to throw in the towel.
She said, she just wants one more shot.
She looks across the street and lo and behold, is an, uh, like an, uh, executive from NBC pulls up to get gas.
She says, man, I don't know if I should run over there, just plead with him.
I don't know if I should just wait.
I don't know what, you know what?
I'm going to do it.
My parents told me run it all the way out.
She runs across probably catches the guy a little off guard.
I mean, you could imagine, man, and she is pleading with him and just pours her out to him, just pours her heart out saying, man, this,
This is where I came from.
This is what's going on.
This is where I'm at.
And then it got to stop.
People are taking notice of you.
You just need to finish what you started.
Man, those words begin to echo.
And he said, just hang in there.
As a result, man, he goes off.
And the next thing you know, not long later, she gets a call.
She gets in a movie called Not God Almighty, Bruce Almighty.
So when it doesn't matter, you don't know what I'm talking about anyway.
Just work with me as a result.
Pick a movie, doesn't matter.
Okay, I don't know if she's in it or not.
Okay.
As a result of it, she gets in the movie and then she gets another one called picture perfect.
And then that one leads to another one called good girl.
And then another one is Molly and me.
And then as a result, man, brother, sister in Christ, man, she just starts to take off.
Let me tell you how popular this woman has become.
Because of this sitcom in this series, her hairstyle to this day,
It's popular.
They call it the Rachel.
Lord, yes, Lord.
It's the last clue I got.
You know her from the sitcom Friends.
And you know her as Jennifer Aniston.
Ma'am, we're brothers just in Christ.
I got to tell you, I have watched enough of that show.
My mother loves that show.
You can only watch it so many times before you just want to take a hostage.
But at the end of the day,
You finish what you started and that's why she is where she is.
That is that gospel.
My brother is Christ, the good Lord remained in the desert.
He remained 40 straight days.
Now stop your first century Jew.
This is the things that you know.
First of all, the guy that is speaking, it's the gospel of Mark.
Mark is a follower of Peter.
He writes this in about the year 60.
As a result, Mark is very Gentile-driven.
He's not Jewish-driven, so he's speaking to people like you and I.
He's all about the facts.
And he says, and he tells you and I that the good Lord was forced or led into the desert by the Holy Spirit.
There's not a dove puddling.
He's got the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.
They're three in one.
It's internally.
He knows what needs to be done.
And now he's walking into the desert for the 40 days.
Now, my brothers and sisters in Christ,
Remember, this is because he knows what is to come.
Now, stop.
When he gets into the desert, do you notice certain things happen that these wild beasts are out there?
There's angels being administering to him.
But as a first century Jew, this is what you and I know.
We fast forward backwards, excuse me, backwards all the way to the Garden of Eden where the animals roamed because there was no need for animosity.
There was no need for anger.
or et cetera because sin has not entered the equation.
Adam is naming all the animals.
They're in a lush garden.
Everybody's singing, come by ya, everybody's getting along.
Then all of a sudden you and I imagine saw the garden of Eden and now we see him in a desert.
There's no plush gardens, there's no water, there's no food and now the beasts are wild.
All of a sudden we go back and we look at Adam and even the garden and there's angels administering to him.
According to the Talmud which is there
If you will, their book of traditions, angels administered to Adam and Eve because there was no reason to quote, cook, end quote, because you're in the garden of Eden, everything's supplied.
Now all of a sudden you and I are looking out into a desert.
There is no food.
There is no water.
As a result, there's wild beasts.
And now you might have just a few angels.
That's what happened when sin comes into the world.
That's how far we have dropped.
That's why he's describing it to you that way.
Because he wants you to know that's what sin brought into the world.
Everything has come this way because of sin.
Now I'm a brother and sister in Christ.
You and I need to understand too that the same way the devil went after Adam and Eve is the exact same way he's going to go after Christ.
Adam and Eve, they saw a tree in the middle of the garden of good and evil.
As a result of it, they saw it with their eyes.
They wanted it, lust of the eyes.
They knew it would taste good, lust of the flesh.
And then it would make them wise like God.
And then all of a sudden what happens when they get out in the desert?
The devil tells the good Lord, throw yourself down and if you want it, you covet it, lust of the eyes, the angels will keep you from even dashing your foot.
If you turn them bread to stone, excuse me, those stones to bread, lust of the flesh, it'll taste good.
I will give you all of this if you're about to worship me, power.
The same way he went after Adam and Eve is the same way he's going to go after Christ is the exact same way he's going to go after you and I.
He doesn't have to change His spots, my brothers and sisters in Christ.
You and I commit the same sins over and over and over yet again.
And did you realize, my brothers and sisters in Christ, He has just been baptized by John the Baptist.
He just had the heavens open up and dove to sin and the good Lord say, this is my son who I am well pleased.
Now he's going in the desert for 40 straight days and the devil is already on him.
Go to confession and walk out the confessional.
and see if the devil doesn't try to bite you as soon as you get out.
Somebody crosses your path, the phone, the text message you got before you walked in, and then all of a sudden, man, you're committing the same sin you could have just confessed 20 seconds ago.
That's how hard the devil is in the world.
And if you read the rest of the gospel, he said he left him alone for a while.
In other words, I'll be back.
My brother is just in Christ.
Go back in Scripture.
All of our best players, all of our best players, finish what they started.
My brother is Christ.
Mary Magdalene, what if she woke up each morning and said, what's the point?
I have turned upside down.
I had all seven demons, pride, anger, gluttony, lust, avarice, sloth, and envy.
Now he's dead.
What's the point?
What if she just said, I'm going to hit the snooze.
I'm in for the day.
Nobody's getting up.
Why should I get up?
I mean, even the vicar of Christ isn't getting up.
She gets up.
She finishes what she started.
I left behind all seven demons, only saint ever to do so in scripture.
I'm gonna get up and go sit next to his tomb because I'd rather be near a dead savior than live people.
I don't care what the guards say or do to me.
I don't care if there's a boulder in the way I can't move that's been sealed by Pilate himself.
I'm gonna finish what I started, that I'm a believer in him.
And because she does that, she's the first to see the risen Christ before the vicar himself.
My brother and sister in Christ,
What if Peter had decided a long time ago?
Lord, please, when would you and I have cut our losses with Peter?
You're in the boat the very first time.
Lord, come steps in our boat after you and I have been fishing all night long.
He tells you and I, we got to go back out again.
And then we say, Lord, man, you're a carpenter.
Oh, you want the nets out?
I got your net for you, buddy.
Here, whoa, man, we're going to catch boatloads.
Exactly right.
Would you and I
would have dropped in the bottom of that boat and said, depart from me, Lord, I'm a sinful man.
Would we have said, you know what?
I'm gonna finish what I started.
I am gonna follow him.
What about if we had been in the boat when the storm came?
And Peter yells out, Lord, do you care if we perish?
Would we have walked away then and never came back?
What about if he made us walk on the water?
What if you went out on the boat with Peter?
We said, oh no, stop Peter.
He's calling me because 2,000 years later, I'm the Thomas.
Stay put for a second.
Would you and I have gotten out on that water?
Would we have finished what we started?
When we denied him three times, if it had been you and I and Louis Peter, would we have still followed him?
Would we even have the remote courage to be crucified much less upside down and for three hours preach the gospel?
Say what you want about Peter.
Peter is a finisher.
Make no mistake about it.
That man's got the gift of perseverance.
You could beat him and do what you want, but he is finishing what he started.
And who, if it ain't Peter, what about Paul?
You know how diabolical his life is?
He goes from Saul, the great Pharisee, taught by Gamal himself, money, fame, fortune, power, prestige.
He's killing Christians because he chooses to.
You go from Saul to Paul.
You lose everything.
Would that have been enough for you and I to call it good?
No fame, no fortune, no money, no prestige, no power.
What about after we were blinded for three days when we had cut our losses?
What about, do you know that Peter, excuse me, that Paul, in his very first homily that he gave, was beaten and stoned afterwards so much so they actually thought he was dead?
Would you and I got back up and go into the next city and continue to preach?
Would we finish what we started?
You know, brothers and sisters of Christ, he received 40 lashes one time, actually 39, right?
The guy that's whipping you has to count aloud.
So if he hits 40 or 41, then he gets to 40.
So he stops at 39.
Would you and I would continue to preach after 39 lashes?
Times five.
That's how many times he had to go to the well because every time he went and preached and they caught him, they whipped him again another 39 lashes five sets.
How many times would you have traveled with Paul when Paul said, man, will you come with me?
His name is synonymous with being the great Paul.
Would you and I have gotten in the boat with him?
And then it sunk.
And then we have to swim to shore.
Four times.
Would you have finished what you started then?
We'll now hear you and I sit 2,000 years later.
Will you and I finish what we started?
From a practical standpoint, the promises that you made to your family, will you finish what you said you're going to do?
Go to school, finish the class, get that project done, get it built, get it out the way.
Whatever it takes, return that phone call, go by and see somebody in the nursing home.
Go by the hospital.
Go by and fix something that you promised.
Or you're going to live up to your word and finish what you started.
Anybody can start a race.
The question for you and I is, can you finish what you started?
What about your prayers?
How many times do people come to me?
Father, I was praying my rosary.
Unbelievable.
Fell asleep.
Not even through the first decade.
But don't worry, Father.
Like I was worried.
Don't worry, Father.
My angel finished it.
Well, let me help you with that theory.
You're angels in heaven.
He ain't got to finish it.
You need to finish your rosary.
You started it.
You finish it.
Have you been writing in your journal?
Or have you already stopped?
Have you started a book and decided you can't even finish it?
You get up in the morning.
Did you say your prayers?
Or you say, no, I'll catch it tonight.
And then we don't catch it tonight.
Then I catch it tomorrow.
And then we never catch up.
Are you going to finish what you started?
I mean, you wear on the phone with God.
Can you finish the conversation?
My brother is just in Christ.
At the end of the day, you and I have to run Lent all the way out.
40 days.
Christ didn't come in and get a Coors light on Sunday.
It didn't stop raining on Noah on Sunday.
And I don't want to hear the argument, well, you know, Father, the 40 days actually ends, you know, on Holy Thursday.
You're going to celebrate on Holy Thursday.
And he gets butchered on Good Friday.
You can't run and finish out three more days because you're
You're counting days?
My brother is just in Christ.
You're good Catholics.
Good Catholic men and women.
Finish what you started.
Because why?
At the end of the day, you and I are going to hear either one or two things that are Christ's mouth on our judgment.
And don't look around because there's not going to be anybody there with you.
Naked and alone, you stand before it.
And all of a sudden, judgment will happen.
Remember, the day you and I die, that very second, no more forgiveness.
That's over.
That was between the day you came in and the day you went home.
You could have asked for all the forgiveness you wanted right over here.
Today is judgment day based on how you played between these two days.
You will either hear, depart from me.
I don't know you.
Yeah, you called my name.
You even spelled it right.
You even said that I was saved.
But I watched you break my commandments time and time and time again.
I heard you deface my church.
I heard you curse and gossip and slander people as if you could judge and stand in my shoes.
Depart from me.
I want nothing of you.
You didn't finish what you started.
Or will you and I hear the immortal words?
Welcome home, my child.
Have I waited for you?
My God, my God, I love you so much.
I watched you.
When people persecuted you, you finished the race.
When they yelled at you, you ignored them and finished the race.
When they told you you couldn't get it done and you did it anyway, you finished what we started.
You would pray to me incessantly even though you were tired and hurt.
Sometimes you were mad, but you finished what you started.
You began and you ended.
Welcome to the table of all of my children and to the table of my saints.
Welcome home, my child.
Job well done.
You are a finisher.
My friends in Christ, even the snails made it to the ark.
Finish what you started.
Amen.
There you go, name the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit.
This has been Sermons for Everyday Living from the Station of the Cross Catholic Media Network.
Please pray three Hail Marys for the priest who preached in today's show.
To share this episode or to hear it again, find us on your favorite podcasting app under Sermons for Everyday Living.
Have a blessed day.